Okay, well, I've got six areas I'm
going to be covering today.
Privacy is basically going to
be covering things with SSL,
because sometimes that can be a bit
tedious to work with with WebObjects.
Protecting resources,
they're going to be talking about
overriding things in the woof request
response loop to kind of protect
things and lock your app down.
On authentication,
just a little bit on using
maybe some more irritating
things with authentication.
HTTP challenge panels
and digital certificates.
For persistent data integrity,
things like helping you make
databases where your passwords
and your credit card numbers,
for example, aren't fully exposed.
For messaging integrity,
a little bit on using digital
signatures to do things where
you can do message between apps,
where you can kind of
verify what's going on.
And in access control,
that's kind of the biggest one.
Unfortunately, I think I'm probably going
to have to be able to spend
the least amount of time on.
But in that,
I'm talking about using access
controls to protect your EOs and pages.
And I've got a demonstration there,
or at least some code that I can
let you all have after this show,
that shows using the Java ACL package
and integrated that with EOs.
So, a lot to go.
So first, keeping it private.
This is the main problem with, I guess,
SSL and WebObjects.
You've got these partial URLs.
And while that's great from
an app server standpoint,
the app doesn't have to know
about the deployment environment.
It's kind of a problem if you
want to actually force things
to go to a certain web server,
or in this case, SSL,
because if you came in over HTTP,
that would be an HTTP URL.
If you came in over HTTPS, you'd be okay.
So, the trick is,
you've got to create absolute URLs or
come to the app over absolute URLs.
So, can I have a guess, too, please?
Alright, so I'm going to come into here.
This is a project,
this WWDC app is something that I'm
going to try and make available to any
one of y'all that want to check it out.
It basically is in code,
everything I'm demoing here today,
including just some reusable components.
First of all, secure hyperlink.
is a way of generating absolute URLs.
You can basically use this
instead of WoW hyperlink.
This is sort of the
gist of what's going on.
Notice I've got a
WoW generic container here.
It's an element named A for anchor.
Instead of just binding
this thing to an action,
I bind invoke action to a method
on the page called invoke action,
and I have href bound
to a method called href.
The action that gets
invoked on the server,
I can set the URL or the href
I want to associate with that
action using this technique.
So let's take a look
at the source for this.
Okay.
And that's how I'm generating the href.
Normally, if WebObjects is just
doing things normally,
it asks the context for
its component action URL.
In this case, if this binding says it
should be under a secure mode,
all it does is take HTTPS and
append the host name to the,
prepend the host name to the URL.
And then I do the same thing for a form.
And these things are
based on a framework.
This is the secure form, by the way.
Same basic thing.
This stuff is based on components
you can find in WebObjects
5 called component elements.
This stuff has been available, actually,
I think since WebObjects 4.
Not many people know
about this framework.
But basically what it is,
is just about all the dynamic
elements you're familiar with
implemented as components using
all the high-speed things that
were done to make components fast.
And I use that as a template.
And in fact,
I subclassed one of those guys
called WX Hyperlink here to
create the secure hyperlink.
So what this looks like.
This is a page that
right now is over SSL.
And because of some demoing issues,
I'm going to leave it over SSL.
But just to give you a little bit
of a sense of what it looks like.
I'm going to have to take my word
for it that that is an absolute
URL behind that hyperlink,
and it isn't...
This doesn't look like
HTTPS because I came in over HTTPS.
It looks like HTTPS because that's
the full URL that was put up there.
So, let me go back here.
Can I have the slides back?
Okay.
Now, there's a better way, in my opinion,
to actually get to SSL than
using these hyperlinks.
And that would be to
do SSL via redirection.
And the technique that I've
used in the demo application is
I override a pender response,
and if you're not coming in over SSL,
I basically tell you to
either access is denied,
or if the page requires it,
I redirect you to it.
Of course,
the trick there is detecting SSL.
There's really no hard
and fast rule for this.
These are just some heuristics you
might use in your implementation.
I have an implementation called
isRequestSecure that you can use
that uses this type of information,
the HTTPS header and the server port.
But you really have to get with your
deployment engineer to figure out exactly
what they're doing so you can look for
the right thing to tell whether or not
they're coming in over secure connection.
Okay.
So, can I have guest two again, please?
So basically what this demo app is,
just by the way,
is a simple commerce application,
and it isn't just purely demo-ware.
I wanted to show some of these
security concepts in the context of,
like, a real application.
And even apart from the security stuff,
you might find this application
useful as an example or as a starting
point for making a commerce site.
So anyway,
some of these things require SSL.
As it turns out,
this create account page requires HTTPS.
Since I'm in it, the request is secure.
If I'm not, a redirect occurs.
Same thing with this sign-in page.
If I'm not over a secure request,
it does a redirect and comes in over SSL.
The reason I like this better
than just making the link SSL,
like,
imagine that this particular username
and password is a link to a website.
The page is over HTTP,
but the form was over SSL.
The user wouldn't have any feedback
that they're on a secure page.
It would look unsecure to them,
and they might feel uncomfortable
about submitting it,
even though it was safe.
If the page itself makes a decision as
to whether or not it should be secure,
and can make itself secure on the fly,
then you're always guaranteed
that when they get to this page,
they're secure,
and therefore when they submit it,
you're secure.
Okay, so back to the slides.
One thing I guess I should point out
about the implementation that I've done
here and that y'all can take a look at,
Before the redirect happens,
I try to do this redirect in a way
where I don't get side effects.
I've seen techniques like
this before where you've got a
double invocation of an action,
or you've got a double
appended response on the page,
and I wanted you to have something
where when you went to the page,
it never generated at all
unless it was okay to see it.
And furthermore,
when you came back to it on the redirect,
you didn't re-invoke the action.
So when the redirect actually happens,
instead of re-invoking the
URI that you originally got,
it basically re-invokes a URI that
points to a direct action that's
a special direct action I call
SSL return that goes and recovers the
page from the session and then tells
it to finish generating its response.
Now, you've got your entire app over SSL,
every page is accessed over SSL,
and you think everything
is really secure,
except for this little thing.
And what I mean by session
hijacking is someone recovering
your session ID through maybe
looking over your shoulder,
or you get up to go to the bathroom
and come back to your system,
and all of a sudden they have a
session ID to your E-Trade account,
and they're taking a look at
your portfolio on their machine.
So you might want to disable this,
and it's not terribly easy,
because at some point the session
ID has to be in the clear.
If you put the session, but if you,
what I, the solution I use is to emit a
cookie that's specific to the session,
and when I do that,
I check for that on every single request.
And so if someone goes
to some other machine,
not only would they have to
look over my shoulder casually,
they'd also have to get on my machine,
get my cookie file, get the cookie,
go over to their machine,
stick it in there,
and then try and hijack it from there.
And if they don't,
I throw up like an access denied page.
So this section is somewhat similar
to the SSL section in that I'm
overwriting a pended response and
some of the things in this section.
Here I'm talking about overwriting
whoops request handling stuff.
As it turns out,
there's lots of ways to get
into a WebObjects application.
You can specify a page name.
You could specify a
direct action on the URL.
So it's kind of important
to just have the app smart
enough not to generate things.
by default, unless you're authenticated,
just push the logic into the
pages themselves to prevent
them from accidentally
rendering when they shouldn't.
So one way you can do that is
to override page generation,
and that would mean overwriting append
response and not calling super unless
you're logged in for certain pages.
The other thing you might do
is page creation protection,
where you override page with
name in the application class,
and therefore prevent page construction.
And there's some pros and cons to this.
Boy, that's a tight one.
The advantage to overwriting
page with name is you prevent the
constructor from ever executing.
So if the constructor is doing
something that requires sensitive code,
it never executes unless
you're authorized.
But if you override page with name in
context and not authorize for page,
you return a page that they can't see,
you might return null,
you might raise an exception.
Now the code that calls
that needs to handle that.
So basically,
in order to take advantage of that,
you have to alter all the places in your
application where you use page with name.
With page generation protection,
you actually let the page get created
and you send it a message saying,
"Is it okay to generate you?" And if so,
then it can generate.
The only downside is you have to
make sure there's no sensitive logic
in the constructor code of the page,
because that will execute
under this scenario.
Okay, now this is something else
I don't think most people realize,
but you know, if you log in and you have
a link to a direct action,
and if you never log in,
you never see that link on the page,
it really doesn't mean you can't
type the direct action link in the
location field of the browser and just
directly access that thing anyway.
Now, if you use the technique
I just talked about for pages,
you might prevent the
page from rendering.
No one can see the page,
but that doesn't prevent
the direct action that got
to that page from invoking.
So, if there's something
sensitive going on in there,
and you just want to globally prevent
any direct action from firing,
unless it's actually okay or it's
a non-sensitive direct action,
you can override perform action name,
inspect the passed in action name,
and just don't call super.
Don't call super if you're really
not allowed to invoke that action.
And you also have access
to the will request,
so in that method,
you could look at the form values for the
will request and the action name itself.
Now, you might not think
this particular topic,
backtracking, would be specific to
I've put a demo example of a little
algorithm that detects backtracking.
Even if you disable client-side caching,
you still might want to know or
give the user some feedback that
backtracking isn't something you want.
In a commerce site,
you want people to backtrack.
But there are certain
aspects of a commerce site,
like the checkout process,
when you're going through Step 1, 2,
and 3.
You probably don't want them
to backtrack to Step 3 after
they've already made the order.
So, it'd be kind of nice
to detect backtracking,
and I do it by comparing context IDs of
the current request to the previous one,
and some other things that are
relevant to direct actions.
And I don't call superinvoke action
if they've backtracked on those pages.
Instead, I just return null,
which has the effect
of refreshing the page.
So, can I have guest 2 again, please?
This action here, Account Edit,
requires authentication.
And the page itself knows
that it can't render itself
unless you're authenticated.
So instead,
it shows the access denied page,
which puts this big title,
access not allowed,
and you must log in to
access this direct action.
Now, this page down here, Secret Stuff,
is a...
Page, just a WOC component.
And again, this particular page,
instead of the direct action,
this time it's the page that's
decided it can't render itself,
and so it comes up like this.
Now, if I log in,
I've got a test account here.
says, "I'm logged in.
I should be able to go to
account edit now." Okay,
then I can see my account information.
Okay.
You probably noticed that these
security demos are kind of boring,
and I couldn't do anything
more graphical than just this,
and sorry about that,
but most of the stuff is
happening behind the scenes,
and I know it's not exciting when you
see a URL change from HTTP to HTTPS,
but it's the best I can do, okay?
Okay, authentication.
This, I'm not going to go into all
these different ways you can
authenticate or gather credentials,
but I will talk about a couple
things like when to log in.
The typical thing in a
WebObjects application,
as it turns out,
is what I call this front gate login.
But there's other ways that
I think are more friendly,
like on-demand, and you might prompt for
login on a session timeout.
Now, this is the usual means,
like people put a login
panel on the main page,
and you have to go through that
login panel to get anywhere else.
So even if you did have direct actions,
if they went and followed the advice
before and locked those down or didn't
define any to vector into the app,
well, it doesn't matter,
because you've got to go in here.
So it's like, hey, come to my site.
I've got this really
interesting thing over here,
but I can't give you a URL to it,
because you've got to log in,
and then you've got to navigate to it,
and then you can see it.
And people go, well,
I'm not even going to bother.
It'd be nice to just sort of
put a direct action on an email
message you send to someone,
have them click on it,
and if they're not authenticated,
just have them prompt for it.
So it'd be nice if you could do
something a little bit better than
this sort of front gate thing,
and that's browse on demand.
And the cool thing about the
previous stuff I showed you
about resource protection,
when you override a pender
response and perform action,
you're basically making your direct
action objects and your pages
smart enough to know when it's
okay for them to show themselves.
And given that,
you can just navigate through the app,
and instead of showing an access
denied page like I just showed there,
you might as well just
prompt them for login,
or prompt them for login
to create an account.
And if they create an account
and they do so successfully,
take them to the intended resource.
Okay, so we've come to that.
In this case, guess two, please.
I'm going to start a new session here.
And let's see,
I need to start just shopping here.
So I've got some specials down here.
By the way,
the special logic actually works.
It overrides the default price.
And let's go home and drill
through some of these categories.
Let's see,
I'll add this to my shopping cart.
So I'm just browsing around the page,
and I'm able to access
some of this stuff,
and then I come to this checkout button.
And click that, and it says, hey,
you're not logged in.
So OK, I'll log in.
and it goes right where I left off.
When I clicked that page,
the page didn't know about it.
It didn't actually,
it was like a super class that figured
out how to return the login page.
If I had been logged in,
I would have just gone here.
So the way this algorithm
works is you go to the page,
append response starts to generate,
the page goes, oh, my God,
you're not logged in.
Then it creates a login response instead.
Instead of doing super
append response on the page,
it goes and gets the login page
and tells it to generate response,
and then returns that
in an append response.
So I see a login page.
But before it does that,
I take the page and I put
it in a session variable.
So when they do successfully log in,
the login action can recover that
guy from the session and then tell it
to finish generating this response,
and then you see this step one
of the checkout page right here.
[Transcript missing]
Okay.
If I had time to put the Visa and
MasterCard images up there,
I would have,
but that's what those things are,
so I'm picking my credit card.
and do next.
And OK.
So I'm at the confirmation page.
And let's say I backtrack.
OK.
It knows that I did that because it
compared the context ID and knew that I--
[Transcript missing]
All right,
now I'm not--don't be frightened by this.
I'm not actually going
to go through all those.
I'm going to--I've already
demonstrated HTML page.
I'm going to talk about HTTP panel just
a little bit and client certificates and
just touch on biometric for a second.
The HTTP challenge
panel--actually with WebObjects,
since you've got an HTML page,
it's probably not necessary to use this,
but you might have a situation where
you've got to use it because people
are using the HTTP challenge panel,
that thing that web server pops up or--
This pops up if you send
back a certain header.
And it does kind of have an
advantage that it can give you
an effective single sign-on,
but it can be a little tricky.
Because if you're not used to it,
you've got to look for certain
headers in the request,
you've got to emit certain headers,
the headers are going
to be base64 encoded,
and your web server might not work as is.
You might have to use
a special web server.
For example,
this authorization header is the one that
gets sent back when you're authorized.
And peer web service with CGI and
Netscape with CGI don't pass it,
but Netscape with NSAPI and
the Apache module do.
And I'm sure there's some other
combinations that do as well,
but you just have to be aware of it.
So you see the panel,
and then you never get the header,
and you wonder why.
Well, this is why.
The interface might not be supporting it.
And the other thing that's
really confusing is this realm.
One way that you can get this sort
of single sign-on effect... is you
can pick a realm on your WebObjects
app that matches the same realms
that need to be protected on the
web server side for static pages.
And so when you authenticate
to the WebObjects application,
and you access something
else that matches that realm,
like some of these static pages,
your browser is going to
pass the authorization stuff
down to the web server,
and then the web server does
the authentication to see
whether or not you can see it.
Anyway, and that gives you the
single sign-on effect.
So that's kind of cool.
But you know what's cooler?
Are these things,
if you can get away with it.
If you're on an intranet,
you might be able to get away with this.
Basically, have people authenticate with
a client-side certificate.
And you've heard of
server-side certificates,
the kinds of things that you buy to put
in your web server so you can get SSL.
This is a similar cert, but for the user.
Something the user submits,
something you configure
the web server to ask for.
And it can also give you single sign-on,
because you're basically doing a
cryptographic operation between
the client and the server and
authenticating to the web server,
and then getting access
to everything behind it.
And that might be good enough,
and you're done,
and the WebObjects app doesn't even
have to be aware that it's happening.
Let me get to this.
I'll mention something
about the second bolt,
though.
However, in some cases,
you might actually want to
get the digital certificate.
And unfortunately,
that's a little bit problematic
right now with the WoW adapters.
So to address that,
even though I'm not going to demo that,
a nice gentleman made a special
WoW adapter that works with Apache as
a module on Mac OS X that will properly
ask Apache for the certificate.
So you can go to that proper header where
the certificate is and get that guy and
pass it on to your WebObjects application
so your WebObjects application can
do things like validate it or look
at user information in the certificate
and see if there's an enterprise
object associated with that guy in some
type of hook on the application side,
like Application Awake
or something like that.
Now here's something you might
actually want to do with that
digital certificate on the server.
You might want to see if the
certificate's been revoked.
That's one thing you might
want to do in your code.
And you do that by looking at
a certificate revocation list.
And VeriSign and all these other
CAs have certificate revocation lists
usually posted on the net over HTTP.
You can also go to some
clearinghouse for this,
a validation authority,
and use OCSP maybe to get just
the status of the particular
certificate you're interested in.
The reason you might want to do
this is this Microsoft example
I wanted to share with you.
About a month ago, someone posing as a
Microsoft employee went to VeriSign,
and VeriSign mistakenly gave them
a certificate and a private key
that let this gentleman sign code
as if he's Microsoft Corporation.
So when you get that
little panel that says,
trust Microsoft Corporation, and you go,
yeah, always, that means you could be
downloading this guy's stuff,
and God knows what you're installing.
And that wouldn't happen.
That cert got immediately revoked.
I mean,
they found out they made a mistake.
They immediately revoked the certificate,
or VeriSign did.
It was kind of VeriSign's flub, I guess.
But if no one's checking
the certificate status,
and not many people do,
talk about an interesting attack.
Everything looks safe, and in fact,
you're being attacked.
So it's probably not a bad thing to do.
Okay.
And lastly,
in this authentication section,
just a note on biometrics.
Personally, I think they're interesting.
I don't think I'd recommend them alone,
but if you combine them with a password,
they're pretty cool.
And another thing I want people to show.
I'll show you at least one-on-one
after this is an example of a
biometric system where it detects
who you are by how you type.
It's kind of interesting.
But most of these things are thumbprint,
palmprint, something about you,
your voice, that kind of thing.
And a lot of times they're used
with digital certificates as
passphrases to unlock the private key.
Now, you've gone to all this trouble
to have these strong passwords.
You've got all the SSL,
everything's hunky-dory,
but then your users pick
passwords like foobar,
numbers, 1, 2, 3, 4, that kind of thing.
And they're susceptible
to dictionary attacks.
So you might want to prevent people
from logging in over and over again
with a dictionary attack on your system.
So I've got a...
demo of that.
This app happens to implement an
intrusion sort of detection stuff.
Can I have a guess too, please?
So, I'll log in with a valid username,
but gibberish password.
Did I say "password"? Must be from Texas.
Okay.
Wow, I must have, like,
torqued that thing down to
get only one shot at it.
I thought I had it set to three,
but I must have set it to one.
But that's pretty rude.
I think I'd, you know,
maybe make that a little bit longer.
That demo's over.
There's two kinds of
counts you want to do.
One based on the username and
one based on the IP address.
Even though people can
spoof IP addresses,
you know.
But you still want to do it because
you want to sort of discourage
the possibility of someone going
to a workstation and going to
different workstations with the
same username or going to the
same workstation as many different
usernames and attacking that way.
So if you check both and you make
sure that not too many happen
within a certain period of time,
you know, then you should be, well,
quite a bit safer.
Plus, you've got a log.
This particular demo application is
writing these records to the database.
When a failed login attempt happens,
it writes this thing called an
intrusion log to the database.
Now, persistent data integrity,
this has to do with things that
happen outside your application.
There's hashing, encryption,
and signatures and timestamps.
So, in the case of passwords, it's
I don't know how many people do this,
but it sure seems I've
been to a few sites,
and I've seen these password columns,
and that password looks
pretty damn human-readable,
you know?
And it'd be kind of nice if it
was at least encrypted or hashed.
And basically,
hashing a password is probably at least
a pretty good way of storing it if
you're going to store it in a database.
And the way the demo application works,
by the way, is to do just that.
When you sign in for an
account and provide a password,
the server hashes that
password and stores the hash,
and it's a one-way function,
so you can't recover the
password from the hash.
And when I authenticate,
when I go to that login panel,
I'm fetching the user,
taking the password that they inserted,
hashing that,
and then looking at the hash
for the user's password,
and I compare them,
and if they're the same,
then I know that they're
okay and they get to get in.
And that's a good way to do encryption.
I assume everyone knows what a hash is,
so I'm going to have to move on.
Encryption.
Now this is a situation where you
make the thing look scrambled,
but you can actually recover it.
And for passwords, that's not necessary,
because you're just doing a comparison.
But for credit card number,
you might want to encrypt it.
And again, I've seen a few websites,
and you've probably heard of a few,
where they go in and they hack in
and they get all the credit cards.
Sometimes those people do go
ahead and encrypt their database.
And they just don't put the
secret key in a safe place.
But hey, at least you've got to
encrypt things like that.
And there's ways of doing
it with key value coding,
with special accessors,
so it happens transparently,
so the rest of your app
doesn't have to care.
Well, unfortunately,
I guess after you do that,
people might hack the database,
but to get the passwords,
they have to hack the database,
get the credit cards,
then hack some server that's storing
the private key or the secret key,
and get that too.
But you could put that secret
key in a pretty safe place,
kind of locks within the locks.
And one place might be the--on 10,
might be the Mac OS X keychain.
If you went to the, like,
the security framework
The keychain is locked down.
In my demo example,
I'm putting the secret key
used for the encryption in a
Java key file in the project.
If you really want to be secure,
you can put the key in a hardware device,
like Chrysalis and Encipher
create these things,
where all the cryptographic
operations happen on the device.
The private key or the secret
key never even leaves that
device to get into memory,
so they're extremely difficult to hack.
You actually really have to be at the
machine and have possession of this
hardware token in order to hack into it.
And to do this stuff, can I have a guess,
too, please?
To do all this stuff,
I'm actually using the
Java cryptographic extensions.
They work with Java 2,
and that's kind of the nice
thing about WebObjects 5,
is that I can use all these Java 2
things and just drop the jars in
from Sun's website and they work.
So in this case,
I'm just going to show the source
code to my credit card class.
And actually, let me come to this.
Worry about that in a second.
OK.
This is a method,
the decrypted CC number and
set decrypted CC number.
This is the method that
all the code calls.
And it does the encryption
and decryption on the fly.
And the encryption and decryption
is actually handled in this
class called Security Utilities,
Decrypted Base64 String.
Basically,
what I tried to do in this demo
was factor out as much of the
security-related stuff into this
class called Security Utilities.
So you'd have one place to look
at it and actually comment it.
And that does the work of encrypting
it and then Base64 encoding it.
And I Base64 encode it so I can just
sort of drop it in any kind of database.
And regardless of what type
of-- even if they just have just
barely a few ASCII characters
supported for that column,
I can safely store the thing.
There's an actual attribute down
here called credit card number.
And that sets and gets
this encrypted gibberish.
So if you look at the
return value for that,
you see the encrypted value,
which is just a bunch
of funky looking stuff.
So can I have the machine back here?
Actually, you can see one of the reasons
I wanted to have this demo for you
guys to download is that 99% of
the stuff going on in these things
is happening underneath the covers.
It's stuff you can't see.
So I wanted you to be able to,
if you came out here for
the developer conference,
I wanted you to be able to walk
away with something that would
carry you forth afterwards.
Signatures and timestamps.
And for this, this has to do with like
safely storing documents.
You could store a hash of a document.
You could store the document,
you could store a hash,
and that might be good if you're
protecting against things like just
accidental corruption of the file.
Because you can check the hash and
see if it matches up in a future date,
and if it looks,
if the hash for the document
matches what's in the database,
you have some reliance that
it wasn't tampered with.
But someone could always
alter the document,
create a new hash, and store both,
and then you wouldn't see that
someone had altered things.
So that's why you might want to
digitally sign the document and
store the signature with it.
And if you want to make sure that,
if it was important
that something happened,
like this was a contract,
if it was important that
time was recorded on this,
you might want to use a third
party to get a digital timestamp.
If you all don't know what that is,
it's basically there's these third
parties where you can take your document,
hash it, take the hash,
send it to these guys,
I think surety.com is one of them,
and they will basically
put a timestamp in this.
Take your hash.
Put a timestamp.
Digitally sign that,
and then send that back to you,
and you can take that and
put it in the database.
And as it turns out, there's actually,
this is what I'm describing is
basically a digital receipt.
And there's an XML standard
for doing documents like this.
You don't have to put
things in two places.
You can just put them
all in one XML document.
And that URL at the bottom is the org
where you can find the DTD for that.
Messaging Integrity.
This is actually very similar
to the document stuff,
but instead of storing
things persistently,
I'm talking here about
throwing things up to the user.
Adobe Five, not the reader,
but Adobe Acrobat Five,
supports digital signatures on Mac OS 9,
it actually runs on Mac OS X and Classic,
and should be, I guess,
carbonized pretty soon, I'm not sure,
and on Windows.
So you basically have this
solution where you can put it on
just about any desktop out there
and get digital signatures done.
And you might want to do that for,
actually the point at the
bottom I think is the coolest,
paperless workflow, or,
well actually employee forms processing,
those two things inside a business.
You're in an intranet,
you could actually distribute
the software on clients,
and your WebObjects application could,
like, you're doing stuff and it
returns a contract saying,
"Do you really wish to agree to
this type of insurance or claims
processing for HR?" And you can
have your private certificate,
which, hey,
might be embedded on one of these,
which would be kind of cool,
and then you can insert this,
if it were a smart card, this one is,
and don't get excited.
If this were a smart card,
you could stick it in the machine and
then digitally sign the document with it.
You could, like,
save the signed version on your system,
or you could post the signed
document back up to the server.
And in a way that's a lot better
than a handwritten signature,
and there's nothing to fax, you know,
there's no paper, and it's pretty secure,
or can be if you have a pretty
strong public key infrastructure.
This B2B thing is very similar
to what you saw in a way last,
just the other day,
when you saw a WebObjects thing on XML.
Here I'm talking about doing
exactly what happened there.
You got two WebObjects
apps talking to each other,
but it wouldn't be nice if
you could digitally sign
just some arbitrary content,
and so the receiver of it could know
that this wasn't some Joe Blow with no
authority to buy the 100 Power Macs.
To do that in WebObjects,
you have a few things to help you.
You've got WoW Direct Actions
to turn WoW apps into services.
You've got the WoW Message API for
programmatically creating requests,
sending them to a server,
and getting a response back.
And you have some XML management stuff
for generating it and interpreting it.
So what I did, actually,
I took the demo that you saw
yesterday for XML processing,
just took it and added Utility Class,
which again is another thing that
will be a resource for you guys.
And then added a little bit of code
to the actual original source code
to add a signature to that XML.
So the request ends up getting signed,
I put the signature in a header field,
and then I send that down to the server,
and the server validates that the content
and the signature passed in are okay.
So, go to that.
Guest 2, please.
Okay, this is the class with all of
the digital signature stuff.
And let me show you where
I build up this request.
Let's see.
Or actually interpret the response.
Here's the code that does it.
As it turns out, I've got an element
called signature value,
and then I take the body of
the SOAP document in this case,
I take those two pieces of information,
and then I send them to this signature
XML utilities class I was talking about,
and say,
"Veofer XML element with the signature,
pass in the body,
pass in the base64 encoded signature,
and an output format for it to
use." And then it just returns
whether or not that thing was okay.
This isn't specific to SOAP.
I mean, you could use this particular
utility with anything.
And it uses, again,
the Java cryptographic extensions
to perform the digital signature and
the digital signature verification.
I would show you the demo,
but it's exactly like yesterday's.
I mean, you just fill something
in and you go to it,
and besides, it's not running.
So.
This is actually the
last piece of this guy,
the sixth part, access control.
So you're authenticating to a web server,
and you've authenticated,
and now we know who you are.
Most of the stuff I've
talked about so far is,
what do I do if I don't know who you are?
Okay, but now I do.
So I've got an enterprise
object or a page,
and the page has certain restrictions,
and I'm a user,
and I might be in certain groups.
So whether I get to see it or
edit it or do something else to it
depends on the combination of state.
Now,
here's something actually I presented,
I think, before,
with one little wrinkle here.
Here's just an example implementation
you might stick on an abstract
superclass for enterprise objects.
Can show and can edit and
pass in a user object,
and just let the enterprise object
figure out what to do with it.
This is a nice,
simple interface that the higher
levels in your app can program to.
Because if you just use a
basic interface like that,
You can apply conditionals,
you can filter out EOs,
and one thing I'd recommend in
this particular area is if you
have an EO editing context,
you might subclass it and override
Objects with Specific Attrification,
call super, and the actual results
that you kick back,
you might ask the results set,
are you readable, are you readable,
are you readable, and if you are,
put you in a subset and
only return the subset.
Then you kind of have a global way of
keeping the results set to a minimum.
Just not so you don't show a count of
seven and the user only sees five rows.
That doesn't look good.
And then maybe you could look
at group membership based on
the users to collectively hide
and show big swaths of the UI.
But anyway, let me back up.
The other thing I didn't-actually
in my demo application I have
examples of using an implementation
of can show and can edit.
I don't have an example
of value for key user,
take value for key user.
But the idea for that is
similar to key value coding,
except the user argument
is thrown in as well.
And the reason you might want
to add something like that,
or an interface or something like that,
is you might have a big honking
record with like a hundred columns.
And guests can see this much,
but certain privileged people
only get to see these attributes.
You know,
and if you had a component which
is smart enough to use that API,
and just decided to use
that and standardize on it,
you know, you could control access at the
granularity of the attribute
with an interface like that.
Now, what about the implementation
behind an interface like that?
Okay, here's a very simple interface.
It makes some assumptions.
I've got a, uh, I've got a, uh,
I've got a
These are methods that might be on, say,
a product or a category.
As it turns out, in my demo application,
the category entity and the product
entity subclass from an abstract
class called ProtectedObject,
and they implement default
implementations of this.
Mine are a bit more advanced,
as I'll show,
but that's where you'd put it.
Just put it on an EO.
And in this particular example,
the thing might have a
relationship to its creator,
a 2-1 relationship, and it might have a
relationship to its owners,
a 2-many relationship.
And if, this particular logic says,
if the passed-in user equals the creator,
you get to see it.
If it's a member of the owners,
If not, it's false.
And the can't edit is trivial.
Basically, the rule is,
if you can see it, you get to edit it.
So, a simple one,
but you could get more elaborate.
[Transcript missing]
This is a diagram view of the
classes which are relevant to the
Access Control Stuff I don't
know if y'all knew this,
actually it came as a surprise
to me a few months ago.
There's actually a
Java spec for defining ACLs.
It's called, if I remember correctly,
javasecurity.acl and there's
some classes in there.
And so,
what I've got here are a bunch of EOs,
Eogeneric Records,
that implement those interfaces.
And instead of like writing
my own implementation of an
ACL policy that interprets all the
state and figures out what to do,
I've got an EO that actually uses the
implementation provided by Sun to digest
the state and tell what's going on.
So, actually it's not very much code.
The classes involved are: ACL Entry,
which implements the
Java ACL Entry user interface.
UserGroup implements the group interface.
Permission implements
the permission interface.
Person implements the
principal interface.
All these guys are networked together
and basically ready to work with
any Java ACL policy that adheres to
the interfaces defined by JavaSoft.
So, let me go into the application here.
I knew I was going to do that.
I've got to make sure I type this right.
Let me take a look at something
that's protected categories.
Now what I've done is kind of
logged into an administration
form of this application and
I'm not even going to,
I'm going to try to
actually explain this.
I don't know how I'm going to do it.
Okay, so we've got product categories,
and I'm logged in as the admin.
I'm in the marketing group.
And what you're looking at here is a list
of all of the categories in the system.
So I'm in as an administrator,
but I'm doing some things you'd
never put in an administration
user interface because I want to
illustrate what's going on here.
As it turns out,
the accessories cool category,
I can edit its name and so forth,
it's got these three access
control list entries.
Okay,
and I'm sorry the font's kind of small,
but I'm going to go ahead and do that.
I probably should have boosted for this.
But let me read it for you.
If you're in the marketing group,
you get to read it.
If you're in the administration group,
If you're the user M.
Neuman, you get to read and write it.
Okay, and as it turns out,
admin is in the marketing group.
And therefore, what does that mean?
Marketing group, read.
Now, what's kind of cool about ACLs is
that unlike the Unix file system,
if someone's in a group
and they get to read it,
you can strategically pull someone out,
remove access.
So let me edit this guy.
And what you're seeing here is
that here's an ACL edit component.
It's part of the project that
you will get if you want it.
And let's add an ACL here for,
that's applicable to the admin,
not applicable to a group.
I'll make it a read permission
and I'll select negate.
Okay.
and save this.
And if you look down here,
I can't read it anymore,
and this list of available
permissions is now empty.
Right, so that's how it works.
And you can just sort of keep
stacking these things on.
And the way the Java policy works is it
takes these two sets and it merges them,
and negatives cancel out positives,
and what you're-the resulting set
is a set of available permissions.
And then all I do in my canShow and
canEdit methods is just call one
line on the ACL policy which says,
"Do you have this permission or not?
Yes or no?" And then return that.
So it's a pretty clean little interface,
I think.
And you can, like, add new permissions to
make up different things.
ReadWrite, I added one called Upload.
You might have other types of
permissions or things you might
want to randomly stick in here,
and it's pretty easy to extend.
Okay, so the first thing I covered
was protecting privacy.
That was SSL components
to generate absolute URLs.
I showed redirection, detection of SSL,
and doing that without side effects.
I didn't want the side effect of
the double generation of an action
or the double generation of a page.
For protecting resources,
I showed overriding some
request handling methods.
I think they were performActionNamed,
pageWithName, and appendResponse.
And one thing I didn't talk about,
but I think might be important,
is if you wanted to like totally
override everything in the app,
or at least inspect everything,
you can override dispatchRequest
on the application object.
And you can ask the request,
"What is your request handler?"
and actually lock down things
like the resource manager.
The resource manager is responsible
for vending out images and
maybe charts or dynamic graphs.
If it's the resource manager,
you can ask the request handler,
"What is your request handler?"
and actually lock down things
like the resource manager.
The resource manager is responsible
for vending out images and
maybe charts or dynamic graphs.
If it's the resource manager,
you can ask the request handler,
"What is your request handler?"
and actually lock down things
like the resource manager.
The resource manager is responsible
for vending out images and
maybe charts or dynamic graphs.
If it's the resource manager,
you might look at the URL and
you might look at what kind of
resource it's trying to get,
and if they're not logged in,
maybe they don't get to see that.
I meant to mention that and didn't,
but that's just one of the
things in protecting resources.
On authentication,
I talked about using digital
certificates and the importance of
actually validating their status.
and for persistent data integrity
talked about and showed using hashing of
passwords and encrypting credit cards and
talked about digitally signing documents.
And for messaging integrity,
I actually did sign a document,
digitally signed a request and then
validated that request on a server.
And then finally for access control,
was using ACL implementation and
combined that with EOs so you could
get the best of these Java standards
plus what UF has to offer.
These are the kind of places you might
want to go to get some more information.
This fact from RSA is awesome.
If you want to know a lot
about security in a nutshell,
it's a pretty good resource.
If you're interested in
protecting your secret keys,
InCypher has a pretty neat
device for storing that.
So do a few other companies.
Rainbow comes to mind.
And Crystalis.
Digital Receipt,
that's an open source place you can get
the DTD for the digital receipt stuff.
Validating Certificates,
that's a company that
validates certificates.
Certificate Authority,
there's many companies that do that.
You've got VeriSign, there's Thought,
there's Interest.net.
Digital Timestamp,
actually that should be Surety.com.
Surety.com.
And then Signing Plugin, Adobe.com.
So.
I guess we still have,
there's still lab left today,
so we're at 10:30,
you still have a chance to go
and play with WebObjects 5,
and if you feel like it,
you might even vote for
the app server thing.
And the next presentation
is Optimizing WebObjects.
That's coming up a little bit later.
It's not directly related to it, but,
you know, it's Friday,
and there just isn't much left, so,
you know,
I had to put something on this slide.
Feedback form, of course,
on WebObjects later on today.
and here's who to contact if you have,
like, want to know more or you want
to have feedback on the product
or problems and so forth.
Our Director of WebObjects
Engineering and Bob Frazier for product
marketing at the same email address.
And if you're interested in consulting,
integration, and training and so forth,
there's the iServices thing.
You've seen all this
many times this week.